Thierry Evan Chen is a man without a
memory so why do people come to listen
to him what can he tell you this keynote
speaker without a past you'll be
surprised at the power of the Thierry
Evenson story you will never forget him
he was one of the all-time greats member
of the Canadian Football Hall of Fame
twice voted the most outstanding
Canadian in the CFL a Grey Cup in 1976
conference and eight CFL all-star
selections but what made him proudest
was the fact he'd fumbled the ball only
three times in his whole career he was a
little guy but he was invincible
catching those long passes like no one
else Terry was a very aggressive young
man and people might have thought he had
a chip on his shoulder because he was
always just very cocky and self-assured
and the first thing of course as a
rookie coming into the Alouettes in 1972
for me meeting Terry Evans and of course
by this time who was a kind of all-pro
receiver I noticed this little guy
strutting like a peacock off the field
and the way he carried himself you could
tell it he was intense he was
self-confidence he had persona he was a
charismatic type guy living on a 32 acre
farm outside Toronto with his childhood
sweetheart Lorraine
and their three daughters the boy from
working-class points and Charles and
Montreal had it made when the sports
career ended his quick wit and natural
charm made him a great marketing man it
was a storybook life and then in a
single second on July 4th 1988 it all
changed
driving on a quiet country road just
minutes from home Terry's car was struck
by a van running a red light he suffered
massive internal injuries last rites
were administered Terry wasn't expected
to live but Terry Evanson is a fighter
his physical injuries were healing as he
lay in a coma for almost a month then
when Terry woke up the devastating
extent of his brain injuries became
known suffering from short-term memory
deficit and retrograde amnesia he
couldn't recognize his wife his children
his mother all of his glorious past
including personal and family
experiences were wiped out he was
without a past and his future looked
bleak again it was time for Terry to
fight this time the long difficult
painful road to recovery it just all
came together at the same time and then
of course four years later I went to the
Good Samaritan Hospital in Puyallup
Washington where I was learning how to
develop and create a new Terry Terry
from the past you got to forget him
because you can't touch him you know we
live on memories don't do this and don't
do that don't go here and maybe you go
there
if you don't have those reach back and
guide you you're always reacting
instinctively by the moment and so I
learned from that tenure in the hospital
to slowly take each day at a time and to
mark it down said my also short-term
memory and build from it
Jerry took speech and language therapy
here II learned everything most of us
take for granted how to tie a shoelace
how to write a check when to say please
or thank you and in rebuilding his life
he discovered a
you purpose something he wanted to share
with other people the new Terry made his
first public appearance after the
accident in April 1992 speaking to a
group of high school students since then
he's been telling his story to audiences
all over the world telling his story
Terry inspires you to look at your own
life in a way you've never done before
he shows you the neverending power of
the human mind to overcome obstacles he
shows you courage and the incredible
perseverance of the human spirit the
message is that where there's a will
there's a way to service from out even
the most horrific problems and that
Terry had found that way it made all of
us realized that whatever problems we
have day-to-day were men ute in
comparison to the kind of problems that
Terry had to surmount you know one of
the things that struck me about Terry
when he first began speaking and
something that I relate to it's
something I think that we missed today
in today's society is that is the whole
concept of values and when you hear
Terry Evanson speak basically he's going
to be talking to you he's talking to me
he's talking to everyone in the room and
his message is universal unfortunately
what we don't see today is enough
spiritual development and people always
say well how the church is still there
in some form of religion but the type of
spirituality that Terry delivers in his
message is something that crosses all
the boundaries of the horizons if you'd
like of whether it's religion whether
it's values whether it's psychology it
all affects in at all impacts on us each
and every one of us how we live our
lives and basically what it does is that
think and in today's world where time is
such a precious commodity you know it's
real nice to have some message they can
have you step back and say yeah he's
right and Terry's message is right like
a true champion
Terry's fight never stops seizing each
moment then it's gone
Terry must reaffirm his own identity
each minute of every day listen to him
and we promise you will never forget
Terry Evan shunned and his remarkable
story